+++
title = "--sync should be sync"
date = 2008-12-21T15:32:00Z
updated = 2008-12-21T17:38:46Z
tags = ["Portage"]
blogimport = true 
type = "post"
+++

emerge sync never should have become emerge --sync, of course 2 years ago I thought it was the right thing, it isn't though, live and learn. sync is currently an argument with the syntax of an option.<br /><br /><br /><br /><em>What's the difference?</em><br /><br />An argument is what the command, or executable operates on. Some examples<br /><br /><code>cp file0 file1</code> copies file0 to file1.<br /><br /><code>ls</code> list the current working directory<br /><br /><code>ls dir0</code> lists directory dir0<br /><br /><br /><br /><em>Right, so how is --sync an argument and not an option?</em><br /><br />Options effect how commands operate on arguments. For example<br /><br /><code>cp file0 file1</code> will overwrite file1 if it exists.<br /><br /><code>cp --interactive file0 file1</code> will prompt to overwrite if file1 exists.<br /><br /><code>ls -R</code> will list any files and directories off the current working directory recursively.<br /><br /><code>ls -R dir0</code> will list any files and directories off dir0 recursively.<br /><br /><br /><br /><em>I still don't understand why sync isn't an option, it isn't a file so wouldn't it be an option?</em><br /><br />Well that's basically what I used to think, not a file not an argument. It's not true to understand better I suggest picking up a version control system (e.g. svn) and seeing how you can have arguments that aren't files. Example<br /><br /><code>svn checkout -r 1346</code> checkout revision 1346<br /><br />See the -r switch is an option that operates on the checkout argument to the svn command.<br /><br /><br /><br /><em>Starting to get it...</em><br /><br />--sync currently doesn't affect any target, doesn't change a thing but isn't a 'default' either (some options are just there for explicitness and are in effect unless another option is there.<div class="blogger-post-footer"><br />--<br />
This <span xmlns:dc="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/Text" rel="dc:type">work</span> by <a xmlns:cc="http://creativecommons.org/ns#" href="http://www.xenoterracide.com" property="cc:attributionName" rel="cc:attributionURL">Caleb Cushing</a> is licensed under a <a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/">Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License</a>.</div>
