+++
title = "Banned from #funtoo"
date = 2009-02-16T09:25:00Z
updated = 2009-02-16T09:58:57Z
tags = ["Regen2", "Funtoo"]
blogimport = true 
type = "post"
+++

<blockquote><br />After significant time, consideration, and consultation with others in #funtoo, there is a consensus that the discussion in #funtoo should focus on Funtoo.  Therefore, I have decided to ban you from #funtoo and encourage you to set up your own channel(s) for your personal efforts. <br />Please utilize Daniel Cordero (TheAppleMan) as your liaison for submitting patches and discussing technical issues.<br /></blockquote><br /><br />I like how all of this was done behind the scenes... oh and I was never asked to leave. I just woke up this morning banned. I find it interesting that Gentoo and Sabayon are considered ok topics of discussion, and I probably wouldn't have gotten banned for saying use one of those. But Regen2 seems to be a sore spot. I would have left if asked... I find the ban unnecessary. Or maybe I would have just idled watching for bug reports, I've unfortunately ended up laughing at most of them, as there have been quite a few on qt, and I preemptively masked the new qt, knowing that upstream wouldn't have it all sorted yet. Anyways... I'd like to state that I personally disagree with all the private discussions that go on in Funtoo. In gentoo the problems are public and distracting, when I was part of Funtoo, they were made private, this does not appear to be different now. It's possible this was discussed in #funtoo-dev as I stopped hanging out in that room when I stopped being a funtoo-dev. I think in general it's a bit hypocritical. I suppose you could say, "you were asked to not talk about regen2 what did you expect?", I didn't actually expect not to get banned, I did expect to be asked to leave, or shut up, with the threat of being banned first.<br /><br />Daniel Cordero (TheAppleMan) has offered to grab patches from the <a href="http://groups.google.com/group/regen2-dev">regen2-dev</a> mailing list. no solution for overlays for funtoo was ever decided. I have left it up to them to figure it out, since I refuse to maintain both my tree and apply patches to theirs... (and remove them when they don't want them). I can't actually guarantee either my individual patches or the overlays will be merged.<br /><br />I'll be continuing to import patches from funtoo, although recently I realized it will be most likely impossible to get them all as drobbins commits quite a few patches during his merges. I recently found out that udev had been updated and had some house cleaning done (there is no stable udev in funtoo now (I think I didn't actually check keywords)) all versions before 135 are gone. So I checked to see if I missed a patch... I didn't which means it was changed in a merge... those are the only commits affecting those directories.<br /><br />Best of luck to Funtooers.<br /><br />NOTE: ah... I apologize for the formatting issue in the blockquote, seems to be a problem with blogger. I've fixed it best I can.<div class="blogger-post-footer"><br />--<br />
This <span xmlns:dc="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/Text" rel="dc:type">work</span> by <a xmlns:cc="http://creativecommons.org/ns#" href="http://www.xenoterracide.com" property="cc:attributionName" rel="cc:attributionURL">Caleb Cushing</a> is licensed under a <a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/">Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License</a>.</div>
