+++
title = "Forking Funtoo - Regen2 project born"
date = 2009-01-29T02:39:00Z
updated = 2009-01-30T02:12:42Z
tags = ["Regen2", "emerge-ng", "Funtoo"]
blogimport = true 
type = "post"
+++

So, I won't be the Tree Maintainer for Funtoo anymore. In light of the new situation I'm forking Funtoo. I'm not going into details why I'm not the tree maintainer anymore on this blog, except to point out how Regen2 will differ.<br /><br />I'll be continuing to maintain a tree with all the overlays I had added and more to come. you can get a copy of my version of portage at git://github.com/regen2/portage.git my private repo is where I test updates first. I'll be maintaining a gentoo.org and funtoo.org branch as well as my own regen2.org branch. The regen2.org branch doesn't currently differ much from funtoo.org, however I intend to keep it up daily and at some point I may even be able to update it more than once a day.<br /><br />I've already got mailing lists and I'm working on having permanent channels on IRC. lists are on google groups at <a href="http://groups.google.com/group/regen2-user">regen2-user</a> and <a href="http://groups.google.com/group/regen2-dev">regen2-dev</a> I don't mind discussions of gentoo, funtoo, and sabayon in addition to regen2 on these lists.<br /><br />Regen2 unlike Funtoo is not about 'fun' it's about making Regen2 the easiest, fastest, most secure, most configurable, most stable and bleeding edge source distro, and probably a few other things, too.<br /><br />funtoo wants as little red tape for developers as possible, to the point of zero red tape and zero accountability on whether things break. If I had continued with funtoo it would have been my job to fix patches that came in with problems on simple things like manifests. It's assumed it takes 1 minute to fix manifest or less when in reality it takes about 10. 2 minutes to catch the error, another 5 to regenerate the manifest make a new commit, and another 2 to test and 1 more to push. This may or may not be a time exaggeration. Now imagine I have to generate every manifest on every ebuild that comes in. This takes time, for me it's easier to ask the person who's submitting the patch to fix there patch. When I sent a patch to git and got a 1 page reaming response about everything I did wrong submitting it, I didn't complain, cry, or quit, I licked my wounds fixed my problems and my patch and resent. I had implemented some red tape to prevent simple broken commits and make better commit logs, these added very little overhead to the actual patch process, and some of them had actually caught what would have been otherwise missed bad patches going into the tree. I will continue checking commits coming into the regen2.org tree.<br /><br />It has been brought to my attention, that it appears like I'm trying to create a rift between funtoo and regen2. Not at all, I will be sending drobbins bugfix patches, and I will be cherry-picking from funtoo.org. I will not be maintaining overlays, or the tree for him however, this is impractical via email patches, I've noted that he's welcome to pull from me. My primary concern will be the regen2.org tree, however. I'd also like to note that the reason I'm maintaining my own tree is the same reason I agreed to be tree maintainer in the first place. At the time I started tree maintainership it had been 5 days since the tree had been merged. This is too long in my opinion and if I don't maintain my own tree it could happen again. Barring extenuating circumstances the tree will be merged daily.<br /><br />I'd also like to note that the original vision of funtoo was in part, a distro to build other distro's. So I'm merely fulfilling that vision by starting this.<br /><br />Hopefully with in a couple of weeks I'll start building stage3's on the funtoo tree, and eventually iso's and stage4's as well. I most likely will not have processor specific or stage1's and stage2's, due to my lack of hardware and the fact that I think stage1/2 is rather pointless.<br /><br />I will be adding emerge-ng to funtoo, which at first will just be a portage (and some other tools) wrapper, however, as time goes on I will be replacing portage with new code to make it faster. emerge-ng should also be a bit simpler to use and it'll have a better name. More on it to come. For my long term visions of it see the emerge-ng tag.<br /><br /><a href="http://regen2.org">regen2.org</a> will be the official home, I hope to have something operational there by the end of the weekend.<br /><br />I hope you all enjoy regen2.<br /><br />EDIT:<br /><br />I realize this may not be the most professional, gracious, or diplomatic of partings, and beginnings. I'm not a diplomat, although, perhaps I shouldn't have said this as I did... perhaps it doesn't matter... or perhaps I said what needed to be said. I've nothing to hide, and anyone is welcome to call me out.<div class="blogger-post-footer"><br />--<br />
This <span xmlns:dc="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/Text" rel="dc:type">work</span> by <a xmlns:cc="http://creativecommons.org/ns#" href="http://www.xenoterracide.com" property="cc:attributionName" rel="cc:attributionURL">Caleb Cushing</a> is licensed under a <a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/">Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License</a>.</div>
